Step 1Passed
In this project, you will learn the basics of CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) by building a cafe menu. CSS is the language used to style an HTML document. It describes how HTML elements should be displayed on the screen.

As you learned in the last few steps of the Cat Photo App, there is a basic structure needed to start building your web page. Every HTML document should have a DOCTYPE declaration and html element. The DOCTYPE tells the browser which version of HTML the document is in. And the html element represents the root element which contains all other elements.

Example Code
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<!--all other elements go here-->
</html>
Add the <!DOCTYPE html> tag, and an html element with a lang attribute of en.

Step 2Passed
Add a head element within the html element, so you can add a title element. The title element's text should be Cafe Menu.

Step 3Passed
The title is one of several elements that provide extra information not visible on the web page, but it is useful for search engines or how the page gets displayed.

Inside the head element, nest a meta element with an attribute named charset set to the value utf-8 to tell the browser how to encode characters for the page.

Step 4Passed
To prepare to create some actual content, add a body element below the head element.

Step 5Passed
It's time to add some menu content. Add a main element within the existing body element. It will eventually contain pricing information about coffee and desserts offered by the cafe.

Step 6Passed
The name of the cafe is CAMPER CAFE. Add an h1 element within your main element. Give it the name of the cafe in capitalized letters to make it stand out.

Step 7Passed
To let visitors know the cafe was founded in 2020, add a p element below the h1 element with the text Est. 2020.

Step 8Passed
There will be two sections on the menu, one for coffees and one for desserts. Add a section element within the main element so you have a place to put all the coffees available.

Step 9Passed
Create an h2 element in the section element and give it the text Coffee.

Step 10Passed
Up until now, you have been limited regarding the presentation and appearance of the content you create. To start taking control, add a style element within the head element.

Step 11Passed
You can add style to an element by specifying it in the style element and setting a property for it like this:

Example Code
element {
 property: value;
}
Center the content of the h1 element by setting its text-align property to the value center.

Step 12Passed
In the previous step, you used a type selector to style the h1 element. Center the content of the h2 and the p elements by adding a new type selector for each one to the existing style element.

Step 13Passed
You now have three type selectors with the exact same styling. You can add the same group of styles to many elements by creating a list of selectors. Each selector is separated with commas like this:

Example Code
selector1, selector2 {
  property: value;
}
Delete the three existing type selectors and replace them with one selector list that centers the text for the h1, h2, and p elements.

Step 14Passed
You have styled three elements by writing CSS inside the style tags. This works, but since there will be many more styles, it's best to put all the styles in a separate file and link to it.

We have created a separate styles.css file for you and switched the editor view to that file. You can change between files with the tabs at the top of the editor.

Start by rewriting the styles you have created into the styles.css file. Make sure to exclude the opening and closing style tags.

Step 15Passed
Now that you have the CSS in the styles.css file, go ahead and remove the style element and all its content. Once it is removed, the text that was centered will shift back to the left.

Step 16Passed
Now you need to link the styles.css file, so the styles will be applied again. Inside the head element, add a link element. Give it a rel attribute with the value of "stylesheet" and an href attribute with the value of "styles.css".


Step 17Passed
For the styling of the page to look similar on mobile as it does on a desktop or laptop, you need to add a meta element with a special content attribute.

Add the following within the head element:

Example Code
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />

Step 18Passed
The text is centered again so the link to the CSS file is working. Add another style to the file that changes the background-color property to brown for the body element.

Step 19Passed
That brown background makes it hard to read the text. Change the body element's background color to be burlywood so it has some color but you are still be able to read the text.

Step 20Passed
The div element is used mainly for design layout purposes unlike the other content elements you have used so far. Add a div element inside the body element and then move all the other elements inside the new div.

Inside the opening div tag, add the id attribute with a value of menu.

Step 21Passed
The goal now is to make the div not take up the entire width of the page. The CSS width property is perfect for this.

You can use the id selector to target a specific element with an id attribute. An id selector is defined by placing the hash symbol # directly in front of the element's id value. For example, if an element has the id of cat then you would target that element like this:

Example Code
#cat {
  width: 250px;
}
Use the #menu selector to give your element a width of 300px.

Step 22Passed
Comments in CSS look like this:

Example Code
/* comment here */
In your style sheet, comment out the line containing the background-color property and value, so you can see the effect of only styling the #menu element. This will make the background white again.

Step 23Passed
Now use the existing #menu selector to set the background color of the div element to be burlywood.

Step 24Passed
Now it's easy to see that the text is centered inside the #menu element. Currently, the width of the #menu element is specified in pixels (px).

Change the width property's value to be 80%, to make it 80% the width of its parent element (body).

Step 25Passed
Next, you want to center the #menu horizontally. You can do this by setting its margin-left and margin-right properties to auto. Think of the margin as invisible space around an element. Using these two margin properties, center the #menu element within the body element.

Step 26Passed
So far you have been using type and id selectors to style elements. However, it is more common to use a different selector to style your elements.

A class selector is defined by a name with a dot directly in front of it, like this:

Example Code
.class-name {
  styles
}
Change the existing #menu selector into a class selector by replacing #menu with a class named .menu.

Step 27Passed
To apply the class's styling to the div element, remove the id attribute and add a class attribute to the div element's opening tag. Make sure to set the class value to menu.

Step 28Passed
Since the cafe's main product for sale is coffee, you could use an image of coffee beans for the background of the page.

Delete the comment and its contents inside the body type selector. Now add a background-image property and set its value to url(https://cdn.freecodecamp.org/curriculum/css-cafe/beans.jpg).

Step 29Passed
It’s looking good. Time to start adding some menu items. Add an empty article element under the Coffee heading. It will contain a flavor and price of each coffee you currently offer.

